revolution  is not an end in itself  revolution  is not a perpetual state  being a revolutionary is not a  profession  and certainly nobody should get involved  with a revolutionary cause  a revolutionary war  or what could be charitably called acts  of revolution  just for the sake of  being a revolutionary  some of you will know exactly what i'm  talking about  some of you have known people  young or old who have been seduced by  the notion of being a revolutionary or  we've been seduced by the specific  notion of being a part of a revolution  and for them it's become  and then in itself  an end  in itself  the objectives of revolution  define  disambiguate and clarify what we mean by  revolution the purpose of a revolution  any revolution is what i call the total  revision  of society the total revision of the  laws the revision of the constitution  if you like  and i say this disambiguates  what revolution means because if we  accept that as our first tenet here  then we can look at for example the  american civil war  as a revolutionary war  the american civil war concluded  with amendments to the constitution  with the revision of the constitution  and the legal political and social  reality of everything in that society  that would not have happened and could  not have happened without the civil war  so  i'm actually expanding the concept of  revolution not narrowing it  with this  definition  right  but if hypothetically  you could write a new constitution for  the united states of america without  a revolutionary war without any war  without any a single person being hurt  or killed right that would be preferable  that would be superior now i could say  this about the american civil war in  relation to slavery racism so on and so  forth  we could also say it about the first  american revolution the american  revolution that wrote the constitution  of the united states of america if  if it were possible  to make the transition directly from the  old constitution to the new constitution  without a war without a civil war  without this really a kind of world war  because don't forget spain and france  all these international empires uh  participated and there were terrible  consequences for the indigenous people  there were genocidal elements to the  wars a lot more if it if it were  possible  it would be preferable  because as i've opened this video by  clarifying right  revolution is not and then in itself the  purpose of revolution is not to have a  revolution or to live in a state of  perpetual revolution nor is it to be a  revolutionary it is to instead  accomplish this kind of  revision  in this video i'm going to really  contrast just  two allegories  for how people think about  the pursuit  of revolutionary social change in the  21st century  and some of you some of you been  watching my youtube content for years  some of you been reading my books for  years reading my writing  whether it was in book or article form  some of you your your imaginations will  leap ahead uh to what i'm getting at in  certain specific applications for  specific  but i think this can be said also about  haiti about jamaica about china today uh  i mean communist revolutionary  revolutions against communism not the  revolutions that established  communism this has all kinds of  applications  undreamt of shall we say applications  far beyond the remit of what's usually  discussed  on my youtube channel  suppose you have a friend  who has made up his mind  that he's going to cheat on his wife  and you're sitting down  and talking to this friend and there's  different types of counselling and  different types of advice  you can give him and perhaps as the  conversation goes perhaps it begins with  you counseling him one way and then  realizing he's not going to take that  advice and then trying to to counsel him  in another  for the purpose of this video  i'd say there are  two  ways  of cheating on your wife  and both  properly understood  really entail that this man  should be seeking out the company of a  woman he really trusts  he really respects i think it's actually  interesting to ask the question  with the clarifications you're about to  hear with all the footnotes in the  argument about to be revealed  maybe  he needs to trust  he needs to respect his girlfriend  more  than he trusts and respects his wife  not less  we live in a cultural context where  obviously the presumption is that he has  a much higher level of trust and respect  with the woman he's married to as  opposed to  the woman he's cheating on her with or  or what have you and and let's be honest  even in the context of an open  relationship  polyamory  whatever you want to say i think these  are  deep-seated  assumptions that we have that i'm here  challenging  the two ways he can go about cheating on  his wife  one  is to pursue a woman  that he trusts  to really work with him  to be on his side to be his companion  and collaborator  in deceiving his wife  where he has a girlfriend  and  in effect he's saying this girlfriend  you and i have to get along you and i  have to be in this together  i'm not going to deceive you because you  and me together like if my wife picks up  on the phone or in the middle of a  conversation if my wife walks in on  something if my wife catches me uh  ordering food that's being delivered to  your place  you are going to come up with an  explanation like i'm not you know i'm  not going to be here on my own i'm going  to dry you're also going to make up some  explanation for why uh the man sent  flowers to your house so the man ordered  food said to your house that you know  where the mistress the girlfriend is  herself  a conscious intentional close  collaborator with a very high level of  mutual trust and mutual respect between  just two  of the three people involved  in this love triangle that's one way to  cheat your wife  you know what another way is  where this man is seeking out a  girlfriend he's seeking out a mistress  and where he says to her openly look you  have to make an effort to get along with  my wife where the man says he's not  going to lie to his wife  he's not going to deceive his wife he's  going to be open and honest with his  wife and he wants this other woman  to really work with him and also work  with her where all three parties  are going to get along think about what  an incredibly high level  of mutual trust  mutual respect  you're talking about there now  a lot of you  your minds will be reeling  in what way is this like  a revolutionary cause  a lot of people  work from the false assumption  that the type of cooperation  that can change the world  the type of cooperation that makes  political movements successful that  makes religious movements successful  makes social movements successful  civil society organizations successful  they work from an unexamined assumption  that the model of cooperation is  military  military cooperation is based on  hierarchy  and blind obedience  in the absence  of mutual trust in the absence of mutual  respect so i've mentioned this in  relation to some current and ongoing  wars i've said to people  if you join the army  you may have to work with  collaborate with  someone who is a neo-nazi  and you're  you have no choice you're assigned to  the same artillery unit you say oh yeah  yeah that guy that guy brett you know  he's a bit of a nazi he's a bit crazy  but i'll tell you something you know  when we're out in the battlefield you  know he's a good man he backed me up and  it's it's hard i'm ethnically jewish for  me to be assigned to a military unit  where i have to cooperate with a nazi is  going to be hard for him to cooperate  with me it's going to be hard and he  might go home and tell his his friends  in the neo-nazis hey you know there's  this jewish guy and we were in the  artillery unit together you know what  he's all right he's okay  you know i tell him all the time you  know he's one of the good ones  this is this is not a rare phenomenon  like the type of racism that exists  within military units there are southern  rednecks who hate black people and end  up becoming friends with black people  because they're in the the army together  and there were probably black people who  hate southern rednecks and they end up  getting to know each other this kind of  thing  if you are an army recruiter or an army  commander  you're in a position to say yeah you end  up recruiting some people who are  neo-nazis  and you recruit some people who are  communists  and some people who are black and white  and jewish and christian and what have  you  and on what principle  are they made to  cooperate  collaborate in the pursuit of any kind  of military objective whether that's a  revolutionary war a  counter-revolutionary war  whether it's filling up sandbags and  building a barrier to prevent a flood  the army does that kind of thing too  it's not always war that these people  are are collaborating cooperating and  doing well it's nothing like cheating on  your wife  is it  right you don't have to respect these  guys  you don't have to trust these guys and  the commanders  i'm using this sentence broadly the  people who are giving orders at whatever  level whatever the whether it's a  general a commander or otherwise people  giving orders  they don't have to take someone  immoral  and transform him  into being a better man they don't have  to take a neo-nazi and raise his level  of political and ethical education such  that he sheds his skin and is reborn as  a better man right all they have to do  is enforce  discipline  whereby they say look i don't give a  [ __ ]  if you read mind conf every night before  you go to bed i don't give a [ __ ] if  someone else is reading the bible and  someone else is reading the quran  when i tell you to stand on this dotted  line  you stand when i tell you to draw your  gun you draw your gun and when i tell  you to pull the trigger you pull the  trigger and that's it  you're here to follow orders  there's no scope for independent thought  creativity initiative there doesn't need  to be any trust between us and if you've  met and spoken anyone in the military or  you've read the autobiographies of  anybody in the military there are plenty  of guys who who hated their commanding  officer or command they may have hated  everybody going up the chain of command  but they followed those orders and you  will meet guys sometimes instead their  experiences they really respected their  commanding officer but they hated the  other guys who were their equals who  were in the same unit with them at the  same pay grade who they had to cooperate  with that might also be your experience  right  this form  of cooperation  is nothing like  you and i working together  to make a documentary film  it's nothing like  you and i working together  to make an illustrated children's story  book  and again then getting an adaptation of  that storybook  to be a cartoon  on netflix  all right documentary films  change the world a documentary film is  never going to be a revolution unto  itself it's not  it's not uh obviously throughout history  before we had cinema before we had the  internet of course books  changed the world writing a book  publishing a book changing people  working together to publish a book can  change the world right any of these  forms of creativity can change the law  how are you going to do that  you know  the simplest steps  leading up to  revolutionary change they require  relationships with a profound level  of mutual respect  a profound  level  of mutual trust and not just trust in  planned situations that's why i'm  talking about this scenario like  cheating in life  what if someone interrupts the phone  call what if something embarrassing and  unexpected can you trust that person  they're gonna do the right thing they're  gonna do the right thing for me they're  gonna do the right thing for us  they're not going to sell me out they're  not going to stab me in the back they're  not going to let me down it's a really  really interesting  kind of trust no i'm going to add a  significant  addendum to this  in using these creative examples like  making a documentary film together  right  you might think  that  i'm only open to the possibility  of intellectuals who have read aristotle  working together  intellectuals who have read cicero and  thucydides that i am only interested  in collaborating with someone else on a  documentary film collaborating with  someone else in publishing an  illustrated book  who i regard as my equal you might be  implicitly assuming as so many people do  in our generation that equality  is the prerequisite to the pursuit of  political change or even that the  objective of all political change is  equality right like whether you've  thought about that as  a contribution as the outcome of  revolutionary struggle or has the input  at the beginning you know that it's the  first presupposition is that we work  together as equals no  not at all  okay  a man and his wife  are very unlikely to be equal they're  most marriages most good marriages there  are dynamic inequalities there are some  things the wife is good at and some  things the husband is good at and  they're not the same things they have  different strengths and different  weaknesses and they learn to  lean on each other they learn to benefit  from each other's help and support and  they also learn the ways in which  they're equal but of course there are  some marriages  where the inequality is absolute where  you know one person is just a completely  useless idiot and the other person's an  intelligent highly effective person i  would not want to be trapped in that  kind of  relationship myself no no the  relationship between man and wife  is unequal the relationship between this  man and his mistress whom he's cheating  on his wife with is unequal and the  relationship between the wife and the  mistress  is unequal  there's no  possibility  of deluding yourself into equality and  guys if any of you are in a polyamorous  relationship relationship i'll tell you  right now the worst thing you can say to  your wife is i love the both of you  equally  if you get caught cheating or you're not  even caught you're open about it then  someone else  you reverse the genders the worst the  worst thing my girlfriend could possibly  say was oh i regard you two guys it's  the same i work hard  what  [Laughter]  the best thing you can say is you two  guys are totally different  i appreciate you in different ways you  bring different things into my life  right that melissa is laughing her ass  off camera by the way you know that's  what you should say you shouldn't  emphasize the equality you should  emphasize the asymmetry the inequality  and the argument you have to make is  that this can be a complementary  inequalities that we can work together  this can be this can be great  right this can be good this can be  tolerable you know whatever the whatever  the the case may be so i gave melissa an  example this morning that came up  spontaneously i made a video this  morning talking about  antidepressant medication psychiatric  medication the health effects the brain  damage  and  specifically and especially brain damage  for  fetuses unborn infants children so  these are drugs that have very serious  negative side effects  most people are uncomfortable talking  with them women take these drugs during  pregnancy and then they have serious  consequences for the babies you can  watch that video if you don't believe me  i cite a whole bunch of scientific  sources and studies but even if you  don't believe me let's just continue  this  as think of it as a hypothetical example  but you may be horrified to find it is  much more actual than it is hypothetical  okay  so  what i said to melissa was  what's depressing to me about making a  video like that  is knowing that i'm not going to get  even  one email from someone wanting to work  with me wanting to collaborate with me  wanting to want to help me you know and  there are all kinds of different ways  you can help i mean one way you can help  is donating money to me i have an  ongoing fundraiser right now you can  just stuff money in my pockets you know  if it were enough money okay right and  we're leaving this aside and and maybe  we should talk a bit more maybe that'll  be a question from the audience maybe  questions about fundraising and how it  fits into the model i'm setting out here  of revolution how  not why um  i pointed out to melissa look  i could be working with someone i could  be collaborating with someone who is not  my equal intellectually who is not my  equal in terms of  book learning  but someone who was just passionate  about this and you had a kind of  sociable gregarious character  this is an example i came up with the  top of my head someone who could stand  on the street and do interviews with  people and say hey i'm gonna name  four of the most commonly used drugs in  the united states of america and i want  you to guess which one causes brain  damage to babies  if the mother takes during pregnancy you  know and so you can kind of imagine it's  kind of a game show  format okay doesn't take a genius  all right  you guys can imagine the kind of  you know it might be someone with a  background in acting might be someone  with a background in comedy right  someone with a skill set  we're not equal we're unequal but  they're really good at that you know  it's  and by the way their motivations their  ethics may also not be equal they may be  motivated by wanting to become a  successful comedian about wanting to  become famous for wanting to make money  they may have other motivations involved  when you bring people together to work  on a project a documentary film or a  youtube video right it's gonna be  unequal different people are going to  contribute different kinds of talents  and my  kind of talent  isn't the only one that matters now  an even easier example  if i want to publish a  children's story book  and if you guys aren't guessing this is  for propagandistic reasons it is for  political reasons it is for  revolutionary reasons it really is  the illustrator i work with the person  who's going to draw the pictures  they don't need to have read aristotle  they don't need they don't need to be on  my level  intellectually or ethically or anything  else like in theory you could work with  someone where their only redeeming  quality is they're an incredibly  talented illustrator they know how to  hold a paintbrush you know they can  and that's all they've got  going for them  gonna reduce the scale  of  revolutionary change i'm gonna increase  the intensity because i think this is  something all of you guys can  relate to  uh emotionally intellectually and and  otherwise  um  what if we want to change  the education system  how  are you going to improve education  in your country in your city in the  united states of america  daycare primary school secondary school  high school university i'm telling you  something right now and i've made so  many videos discussing this that i'm not  going to digress to do anything there  the way to reform education  right  i think you all have a sense of what i  mean by reform we're talking about a  change that is as profound and startling  as what happened at the end of the  american civil war it's something like  an amendment to the constitution or  ripping up your constitution and writing  a whole new constitution right  if you want that kind of  change that kind of revision  in your society it will never be  accomplished by standing by the side of  the road  holding a cardboard sign and chanting  you can do that today tomorrow next year  you can spend the rest of your life  organizing groups of people who hold  cardboard signs and chanting and you  will not move one inch closer towards  having a better education system in your  country in your city  i'm using the united states of america  as an example here because it has a  certain kind  of democracy right that is effective  nowhere and obviously it's not effective  within  congress china  now  what do you want to do  in the pursuit of and i'm not talking  about trivial change here i'm not  talking about getting a five percent  raise for the teachers salaries talk  about real revolutionary change we have  really new fundamentally different ideas  of education one thing you could do is  to make a documentary movie  right that's not the final step but it  could be a first step you make a  documentary movie with everything  everything that's wrong about the  education system right now okay that's  pretty interesting  someone might watch your documentary  film and say hey you know what the  problem with your documentary is you  don't have a positive example of your  philosophy your theory of education  working really well in contrast to what  you're criticizing good point now you're  gonna do a fundraiser and you're gonna  raise millions of dollars and you're  gonna have a team of people work  together and you're gonna own and  operate a private school that  demonstrates the way you think education  should be done  now you can make another documentary  movie i'd say the first one was  successful and now you have the contrast  okay  how are you going to accomplish this on  the level of human organization this  video is about how  not why  even in just making the first  documentary film in the sequence of  three steps i've outlined here right  again the revolution isn't over yet you  you realize there's maybe there's a  whole century of struggle maybe a decade  right but okay now we're talking about  the beginnings what could really be a  powerful movement with real  transformational power right this is a  good start it's going to start with  something really really positive for the  future of the world  think about the type of cooperation you  need to have in making the first  documentary movie  and then in creating  and managing that school  all right obviously several other people  will have to be teachers in this school  right my relationships with them will be  unequal  they don't know everything i know and  quite likely they're people who saw my  movie  they saw the documentary and think i'm  really honest like maybe you make  documentary maybe you publish a short  book or manifesto or something that goes  so people who really like the film can  buy the book and read more of what your  proposal is for how to improve education  okay you're gonna have to select people  who will work with you  in running this school whom you can  trust  if there is just one bad person  on your staff the reputation of your  school  is  ruined  you could have  one person  who's a pedophile you could have  one person  who's a drug addict  you could have one person who has a  violent temper and loses control and  beats the students like think about all  the different ways this could go wrong  you could have one person  who  is okay in the job interview  but can't cope with the stress and  they're just not that intelligent and  they make a mockery of your whole  philosophy of education and guess what  somebody else can make a documentary  film about how terrible your school is  you know how you're you know because you  had one bad one bad teacher you're worth  so without getting into all the  questions of  what redeeming qualities these teachers  would need to have and the way in which  by the way they again they may have  redeeming qualities i don't have  like i might be the guy who can make a  hard-hitting documentary film saying the  university is broken here's what's wrong  with universities the high school system  is broken here's what's wrong with high  schools we go all the way down i mean  it'd be a lot of work  day care centers kindergartens we could  really do hard-hitting critique of these  institutions someone might say well you  know  you even though you had what it took to  make this film you don't have all the  call you can't be a one-man movement you  can't  you you probably can't even be the  school principal someone with a certain  kind of background in management and  actuarial science there's a lot of  paperwork and a lot of you know  logistics involved  there are all these other roles here you  can't play  so who's gonna play them probably other  people who who lack  some of my redeeming qualities and who  have different redeeming qualities of  their own the level of trust the level  of mutual respect it's nothing like the  army  and  it's natural people think revolution  they think revolutionary war they think  civil war  they think of this in a militaristic way  and they think of it as encompassing and  including people with totally different  political values totally different uh  presumptions about life you know as as  war does i mean both today and in  ancient times you know  this isn't new you know they think  one of the terms left-wingers like uses  big intent big tent political  organization we have a big tent uh in  england they say a broad church a church  that includes many different uh beliefs  and this kind of thing as opposed to  having a narrow church and i'm aware one  of the criticisms directed against  vegans  this is the first time i've used the  word vegan in this video but many people  say about vegans oh you're engaging in a  purity test you only want people who are  pure enough who agree with your with  your your beliefs your conceits this  sort of thing you know okay right what  i'm saying is  there's a profound  and almost invisible mistake  in thinking that these are hierarchical  relationships based on giving orders and  blind obedience based on leaders and  followers as opposed to thinking about  it being much more like cheating on your  wife  now  again one model i suggested you  is that you're cheating on your wife and  your wife knows about it this is more  like an open relationship for like  polyamory but that's also work i mean  making your mistress  feel good about your relationship with  your wife you know neither party is  jealous or the other or hating on the  other making your wife feel good about  your mistress nobody feels like they're  being cheated or deceived or deprived of  something they're entitled to right like  which which model is is more work and  my point is this  this can never  operate  on the basis of one man giving orders  that just the two other people  follow one person there's a whole range  of  spontaneous and sincere activity that  can't be  micromanaged  all right  what does it take to make a film  like the artistic and creative elements  of the collaborative elements  you can't  you can't give orders for these things  you need people who are spontaneously  sincerely positively motivated to  contribute to your film what does it  take to run a school  a school a daycare center a university  even we can think of this at any level  of education right you can't command  from people  the type of partly improvised you know  the  what are you gonna do sit there in the  room with the professor while they're  doing q a with the students are you  gonna you know breathe down their neck  and observe everything they're doing and  try to ring from them exactly the type  of you know performance you command it's  it's just not the case that this is like  having men in uniform standing in a  firing squad uh pulling the trigger when  you when you give the orders you're  actually talking about a kind of  trusting  collaboration where a lot of the time  it's like look i'm not going to be in  the room when you get that phone call  you're going to get a phone call from my  wife who's angry at you or something and  you've got to handle it you've got to  improvise or make up your own story i'm  not going to be in the room telling you  what to do i'm not going to manage it  for you when you deal with  infinite  known and unknown  you know situations right those are the  relationships that make  revolutionary change possible that is  the question of you know  how  not why  so  from the very first  videos on this channel  i've discussed the extent to which  the history of the world has been made  by the salon  all right  holbach and helvetius in their salon  um  you know yes the french revolution  involved armies  it involved decapitations and bloodshed  it also involved elections and a  parliament and a new constitution a lot  of people want to kind of  discuss the french revolution purely in  terms of mob violence and leave out the  democratic aspect the procedural aspect  and the way in which they really did  have a working  parliamentary system  also right but  i don't think it's controversial to say  that without the intellectual groundwork  created by people like voltaire people  like hobach and helvetias in their  salons many of whom never dreamt  of the revolution that would come and  many of whom died before they saw  the revolution uh sir but another one  the baron de condor say right we were  talking about conor say just just the  other day you know  it is not controversial to say  without them the revolution would have  been  no revolution at all  now again  when i talk about the american  revolution  i'm normally um  trying to  de-glamorize it rather than glamorize it  the american revolution is so storied  and so mythified that you know my role  very often is to kind of debunk  misconceptions about the american  revolution but there can be no doubt  again that in a period of at least 15  years  before the american revolution right  there were these intellectuals including  benjamin franklin another interesting  contrast including benjamin rush i just  mentioned we could go through the whole  intellectual pre-history of the american  revolution there there were salons  benjamin franklin very clearly and  explicitly organized salons so on some  of them to do with science some more to  do with uh politics some more to do with  religion you know but that intellectual  life  is what i'm going to emphasize okay  many of the people  who were  leaders  in this sense  of the revolution did not think of  themselves  as leaders many of the people who set  the groundwork for evolutionary change  did not think of themselves as being in  any way involved in a revolution or  setting the basis or something that  would later become a revolution for many  of them it didn't occur to them right  many of the people who were heroes  never thought of what they were doing  as heroic and this is another very  strange asymmetry that creeps in when we  include the  intellectual component in the assessment  of how revolution works  how not why we can pursue fundamental  revisions to our society fundamental  political change  if you guys have a moment hit the thumbs  up button now's the time to do it i will  read your questions and comments  if they're not on my level i'm not going  to reply to them but  if you have anything intelligent to say  i warned uh the first people who showed  up here that this would be a short  broadcast so think of your questions in  advance  and  you know if you have left this video  really with a lot of questions to ask i  would remind everyone i have invited  people to send me questions about my  current book  veganism the future of an illusion that  books is one dollar digitally it's four  dollars on paper so you can own it is it  convenient babe yeah do you wanna just  pass me so it's a good looking book  a lot of a lot of entertainment for four  dollars so you get it on paper for four  dollars oh look at that i haven't aged a  day honestly  uh yeah suitable for framing too and you  can see it doesn't take that long to  read but i haven't had an open call for  questions on the internet now for at  least a month i've said look i'm happy  to do a video answering questions  but um  part of what this book is addressed to  and the next book to be published  hopefully within the next two weeks i've  really got to finish it and publish it  the next book to be published called no  more manifestos part of what it is  answering is how do we live our lives  without  the hope  of a revolution what does it mean to be  a dissident intellectual to really  pursue fundamental political and social  change in the absence of an actual  revolution or in the absence of any hope  or dream of participating in privilege  and you know another way to put that is  what does it mean to be an intellectual  pursuit of political change when you  don't have the delusion that somebody  else is going to do the hard work for  you  because for most people that's what the  dream of revolution is isn't it it's  just oh don't worry wait till the  revolution comes somebody else is going  to do the thinking for you someone else  is going to do the planning for you  someone else is going to do all the hard  work for you  and my message is no uh uh  you know wherever you you live  if the education system if you think  it's a disaster  in michigan if you think it's a disaster  in ontario if you think the education  system is bad in  the british isles i don't know  lancashire  lancashire you know what you know who  you don't you know who  nothing is going to change we're waiting  for you to show the initiative you know  what i mean and there was a time when it  wasn't obvious that the whole world was  waiting for voltaire  but they were  voltaire had to show that initiative a  whole bunch of weirdos holbach and  helvetias any of these guys you know  before the revolution came it wasn't  clear what the significance would be  uh  all right so no revolutionary change in  the education sector you can't wait for  someone else change is waiting for you  no one else is going to do it for you so  in that sense don't passively expect the  revolution to happen you have to be  the revolution you have to start living  the revolution you have to start acting  on your own initiative and your own  authority  uh right now  and look i've chosen education as my  example here  again you can read my whole book written  about this in no more manifestos the  major uh example i use again and again  is the reform of policing the reform of  the justice system police brutality and  so on although i have to say there are  quite a few pages about reforming the  university system it will manifest those  two both examples are in there but you  know so we just lived through several  years of radical demands for change  under that heading right so where is  change gonna come from all right it's  you and i  all right and obviously in relation to  veganism i've made so many videos about  this the change is not gonna come from  standing on the sidewalk holding a sign  if you wanna reform psychiatric care or  antidepressants medical science any of  these things  i hope you think of it this kind of  change it's not going to come from  anyone but people doing exactly what  voltaire did as strange as that may seem  it's going to come from dissident  intellectuals providing  leadership  it's going to come in a sense from  distant intellectuals doing what  socrates tried to do but failed  and i think it's very easy to imagine  with these these examples i've set out  someone could make a documentary film  that really lets people know  on a scale of millions of people  women are taking antidepressants during  pregnancy  and giving birth to children with brain  damage giving birth to children with  mental abnormalities  even if it's not your son or your  daughter  your son or daughter is going to be  sitting in a classroom with people  who are affected  by this fad pseudoscience of  antidepressants this is a huge impact  one documentary film  could ring the alarm bell and it could  be the beginning of a profound kind of  social and cultural change all right and  under any of these headings any of these  examples i am not saying a documentary  film is a revolution unto itself it's  not but i think it's clear for you  how uh  the role  of the creative arts and the way in  which  the minority of us who are  dissident intellectuals acting in the  public interest we have to make use of  the arts to reach out to to wake up to  guide  um our fellow men and then create the  basis for a better political regime and  future fundamentally for the revision of  the constitution  both in the literal sense of a written  document and the more abstract sense of  what it is that defines our society our  culture are the political status quo  i just pointed to melissa melissa this  is your chance  [Music]  all right looking at the written  questions uh now  hmm  so i i'm gonna reply to a few different  questions under just one heading so i'm  seeing these questions from oliver  [Music]  so oliver i'm gonna i'm going to  answer all your questions under one  heading  part of the title of this video is that  we're talking about revolution in the  21st century  no one has asked this question but i'll  state as a question how is revolution in  the 21st century different  from every other century  that came and went before and a very  simple answer  i think in this century now more than  ever  we have to have these close trusting  collaborations based on mutual respect  even mutual admiration that's more like  cheating on your wife  and not these militaristic hierarchical  relationships i think in the 21st  century we don't have a choice some of  you might not know this example and some  of you might immediately remember this  there were quite a few scandals  showing that there were insane  communists revolutionary left-wing  extremist communists who were part of  bernie sanders organizations back when  bernie sanders was making his bid to  become  president of the united states  now  these people just volunteered these  people they probably just went and  filled out a form to say they wanted to  volunteer to somehow have a position  inside bernie sanders organization and  whatever i mean you know some of these  people answer phones some of them hand  out pamphlets this kind of political  organization  maybe a few of them were at higher  levels of of command i honestly don't  remember that in that kind of detail now  today  in the 21st century that's put on  youtube that's put on twitter  the whole world sees it  and it's deeply embarrassing and it  discredits bernie sanders movement  an example that might be harder for you  guys to sympathize with but it's it's  just human  uh patrice cullers the leader of black  lives matter  you see the way she's had these weird  cronyistic relationships with people  friends and lovers and what have you and  who she's sharing this money with in her  position of authority having collected  many tens of millions of dollars in  donations and so on in her in her  position of power and everyone looks at  this and says well this has no  legitimacy this is terrible so on and so  forth and you can think though what if  you weren't her position  would you want to make the mistake  bernie sanders made and just let anyone  fill out a form and say they want to be  a revolutionary say they want to join  your revolution and you start giving  them millions of dollars  or  you know are you only going to work with  people you can trust  and and who can you trust maybe it's  your ex-boyfriend maybe it's your  ex-girlfriend maybe it's your your baby  daddy maybe it's you know this other  activist you've been friends with yours  where instead it starts to look like  like cronyism but my point is this today  all of this is visible  it's visible to all the participants  within an organization it's visible to  the donors it's visible to the the  general  public  um  so i mean  the level of transparency you need  to operate a civil society organization  to operate a charity  to collect donations for some civil  political cause uh  the level of transparency and  accountability that every organization  big and small must have right  i think that destroys the prospect  of more dehumanizing mechanistic  militaristic relations of of giving  commands  now  it's the sort of thing i joke about in  different ways  um  [Music]  you know  what if  every student in every classroom had a  a camera  on their hat let's say that although in  their lapel had a camera and a  microphone recording the behavior of the  teacher  at all times  this might not be far off in the future  i saw a lawsuit  that was launched by a group of  concerned parents when they put a  microphone in their kids backpack  for just one day and it was a mentally  disabled child and they recorded all the  misbehavior of the teachers for just one  day  it was really saddening and a glimpse  into into human nature  now  something i've said to my own daughter  someone said to my colleagues and so on  um you have to live your life  as if the camera is on  all the time  you know and you any of these positive  examples so the recent past  how would  the black panthers have been different  if they had to deal with today's levels  of transparency and accountability how  would the ira have been different i do  not sympathize whether to support the  ira it's a terrorist  nevertheless you know any historical  example you want how would the uh  feminists  uh the original suffragettes you know  how would they have coped with this  level of surveillance frankly um and  accountability okay well  i'm i'm giving you my answer i think  this is the way in which the pursuit of  political change in the 21st century is  different from any other century that  that came before and you can no longer  have the attitude that there are people  in your organization people who  collaborate with people you work with  even say the illustrator for my book  um my colleagues in making a documentary  film  uh i can't make excuses i can't sweep it  under the rug these have to be people i  really trust i really respect  and it's in that way  that i think there's the potential for  that that older model it's obviously  associated with the 17th century 18th  century 19th century the model of the  salon  to once again become  um  the most important building block  in the pursuit of  political and social change